About Qualcomm
--------------
Qualcomm is the world's leading wireless technology innovator. The company is based in San Diego, California, USA. 
It has offices all around the world, including Cork, Ireland. 
Qualcomm Incorporated operates as a multinational semiconductor and telecommunications equipment company. 
Qualcomm produces and sells semiconductor products in a fabless manufacturing model. 
It develops semiconductor components or software for automotive, smart-watches, laptops, tablets, smartphones, and other types of electronic devices. 
Nowadays, most people know Qualcomm for its Snapdragon chips powering mid-range to top of the line flagship Android phones and tablets available in the market today.


Qualcomm's Brief History
------------------------
The company began in July 1985, created by 7 former Linkabit employees, led by Irwin Jacobs. 
The company was named Qualcomm which stands for “QUALity COMMunications”. 
It started out as a contract research and development center. 
The company went public, filing an IPO in September 1991. 
When Paul E. Jacobs, son of Irwin Jacobs took over as Qualcomm's new CEO, Qualcomm focused more on research and development on projects related to Internet of Things.
Then when Qualcomm announced that Steven Mollenkopf would succeed Paul Jacobs as Qualcomm's new CEO, MollenKopf expanded the company's focus on wireless technology for cars, wearable devices, and other new markets.
Now, Qualcomm's CEO is Christiano Amon, he got appointed as president of the company on January 6th, 2021. 
The latest acquisition is the Advanced Driver Assistance Systems and Autonomous Driving software brand, Arriver.


Organization Structure
----------------------
Qualcomm has a matrix structure in which the company operates based on vertical and horizontal relationships.
Most employees in Qualcomm reports to two superiors: the functional manager and the project manager.
Qualcomm Ireland moved its office from Mahon Point to Penrose Dock late 2020.
Qualcomm owns three floors in one of the two blocks.
Qualcomm Ireland currently has more than 600 employees, with a target to go beyond 1,000 employees by the end of the 2022.
The workforce here in the Cork office is very diverse, consists of people from around the world.
Even the new batch of interns this year alone is super diverse, consisting of people from all over the world.
As far as I know, there are only 4 local intern hires from Cork out of around 30 new interns in this new batch.
Qualcomm hires the best talents, regardless of their races, religions, gender, and nationalities.


Company Benefits
----------------
In Qualcomm Cork, there are a few benefits that also apply to interns as well. 
First, Qualcomm provides pension fund options for all interns.
However, since there is no employer matching for interns unfortunately, I didn't apply for the pension.
Interns are also eligible for paid time-offs, which is great.

Next, during covid-times, all employees are eligible to claim up to 25 euros back every month to subsidize for the internet broadband bill.
I only applied for the claim in January. Also, all employees including interns can request for an office chair free of charge.

Furthermore, this could vary between different teams, but our team has frequent team events.
This includes lunches, dinners, outdoor/indoor team building activities all paid for of course.
This is great for us interns especially as it allows us to get to know more about our colleagues better.

Moreover, the company has a games room, filled with board games, foosball table, a huge TV, bean bags and more. 
I often hang out there with some other interns and colleagues during lunch break to play some video games.

Lastly, there is a huge and luxurious shower area in the office that is open to all Qualcomm employees.
It has free lockers, hairdryers, huge mirrors, even a drying room to dry your wet clothes and towel.
It has everything someone could ever need. I take advantage of this as I cycle to work.
By the time I reach the office, I either get soaked in my own sweat or the rain, so being able to take a shower before I start my day is a huge plus.